# Senior-Portfolio
A compilation of computer science projects I worked on during my time as an undergraduate student at Westminster College.

### [Meme Generator (Fall 2018)](https://github.com/tiff9099/DBProject) 
This was a final team project I collaboratively worked on with 2 other classmates in the course Database Systems. In this course, I learned about databases from theory, practical design, implementation, and application programming using SQL. I learned how to read, design, and interpret relational models for databases; to implement, query, and work with database systems; to design and write applications that interact with databases; and work collaboratively in teams to implement meaningful projects.

Implementing this final project was helpful for me in effectively applying the concepts and techniques I learned about database design and functionality in this course hands on in building an application that could be applicable to the real world. 

For this project, we created an application that had a meme generator and a homepage that displayed the most liked/newest memes. The generator took two strings for input: top text and bottom text and returned a random meme from the database. The meme was then generated with the text designated to the image. This web application functioned in allowing users to create custom memes, vote for the best memes, and post comments. It also included functionality for a recommender system that displayed memes to users in a personalized way. This meme generator was coded in python3 using Django as its web framework. ImageMagick was used to manipulate the images and save them into our database. As for the recommender system, we used a machine learning python package. 

Since this was my first time completing a web application, upon completing this project, I felt that I gained confidence in my ability to design and write web applications that interact with databases. In simple words, my proficiency in developing higher level software grew. It challenged me to think more about the immense amount of possibilities and creations that could be made with object-oriented and database systems like SQL. It was thought-provoking and made me reflect on how much creativity and collaboration it takes for developers all around the world to create applications and platforms that positively influence the livelihoods of potentially billions of people. 

### [Asteroids (Spring 2019)](https://github.com/tiff9099/Intro-to-Data-Structures/tree/master/Asteroids)
Asteroids was my final project I completed for an Intro to Data Structures course. Asteroids is a simple game that allows a player to control a triangular shaped spaceship in an asteroid field. To be honest, I had previously worked on this project, one year before, in the Spring of 2018, during my freshman year of college. I first attempted taking the Intro to Data Structures then, but working on this project was really difficult for me at the time since I did not yet comprehensively understand how to apply the concepts and theories we learned about data structures to implement this project. It was the second computer science course I had ever taken, so my grasp on computer science and coding in general were still at a newcomer's level. Therefore, in my first attempt, I did not do well in implementing this project and the class overall. 

Although my first year in computer science was discouraging, I did not give up, but instead, perservered. I did my best in learning more about Java programming and read through textbooks throughout the Summer of 2018 to make up for my shortcomings. I was then able to re-take this course again the next year in the Spring of 2019. Although for some re-taking a course may seem like a weakness, I found that re-taking this course really help me understand data structures more intimately and more firmly establish the important structures and algorithms taught in my mind. It helped me reaffirm to myself how much I actually understood about the materials I was taught and had absorbed in Data Structures, but just needed more patience, support, and time to learn how to implement them correctly and effectively. Though this was not at all an easy process for me, since I had to redo all the coursework I had previously struggled in completing before, I was able to get full points on my final version of this Asteroids project and truly understand the importance of the application of data structures in the world of technology, from games like Asteroids to webpages on Google. All in all, this was a meaningful learning experience for me since this was the first significant project I successfully implemented on my own and I gained an improved understanding of data structures.  

### [Space Math (Spring 2019)](https://github.com/tiff9099/1st-2nd-Grade-Math-Game)
This was a semester-long project I helped develop in a group setting for an upper-level computer science Software Engineering course. In Software Engineering, we focused on effectively creating software using an Agile approach to software development and design. We extensively learned about software engineering techniques and practices such as software planning and design, scheduling, testing and reliability, and software main-tenance. 

Space Math was a web app created to help elementary school students (grades 1 and 2) practice and improve their math skills. This game was built using ActionScript3 and the Starling framework as well as PHP and MySQL. This project was completed within 3 releases (January-April) and mimicked the actual process of software design and development many tech companies use. We proposed an initial prototype and then were able to successfully present and model our final product release. 

Working on this project in a group setting was helpful in learning how to foster effective teamwork in software engineering work, which is an extremely valuable skill to land a software engineering position. I learned a lot about the different concepts of software engineering and techniques of software design, especially about the Agile technique of designing, developing, and delivering software. My teammates and I experienced several programming challenges which really challenged me to apply my problem solving skills to find a solution to overcome these unforseen challenges. In the end, we were able to overcome the majority of the challenges that were thrown at us and ultimately, reflect on how we could implement future software projects more effectively. 

Ultimately, this class and project were very fascinating experiences for me since it was my first introduction to software engineering practices and software implementation. These experiences taught me how to critically program in order to create efficient and effective software, develop advanced problem solving skills, be creative, set ambitious goals and expectations, gain experience working both individually and collaboratively in a group setting of programmers, and lastly, understand the importance of communication between teams. I have yet to participate in a computer science related internship or job at this point in time, but thanks to this class it gave me a foundation of knowledge in the field of tech and has only grown since. 

### [Genre Prediction from IMDB Movie Posters Using a Multi-Label CNN (Fall 2019)](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/17N2fQnXBbRnFydgC6Gu88RxlXX3QsddZ?usp=sharing)
I completed this project collaboratively with a group of 3 other teammates for a Deep Learning course at Korea University taught by [Hyunwoo J. Kim](https://github.com/MLman). 

This project implements a convolutional neural network (CNN) that, given an image of a movie poster, it will output the top 3 genre predictions for that movie. This CNN is based off an existing multi-label image classifier model created by Prateek Joshi, which learns from a data set of 10,000 movie poster images and improves upon Joshi’s existing model by increasing its accuracy. After processing and cleaning the dataset, and implementing and tuning different architectures, we ended up with 91.97% accuracy, a significant improvement from Joshi’s model. However, greater accuracy could be achieved with higher computational resources and the implementation of regularization. 

In this deep learning project, we tested the state-of-the-art architecture VGG19, and another supervised convolutional neural network, to perform the classification task of teaching our CNN how to identify different genres given a movie poster as input and output its top 3 associated genres. It does this by using this state-of-the-art model during training to encode input images with convolution, subsampling layers of the network and then, using the SoftMax approach to calculate genre probability.  

Implementing this project was one of the most significant experiences for me throughout my entire learning process in college because it helped me gain necessary exposure to a field of knowledge, Deep Learning, that was not offered at my home college. This course truly inspired me like never before and made me increasingly interested in Deep Learning CNN's and algorithms and their real-world applications. I learned and saw the real potential Deep Learning had for making meaningful change in the world, that I used the knowledge I gained from this course to implement my Senior Capstone Project in the Spring of 2021. Deep Learning was a field I honestly did not know existed before this experience, but that has now become my interest area since. 

### [Photosensitivity Warning Prediction Using Binary-Label Classification (Spring 2021)](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1O_fUneQFYd6E7gk-kpIIRq1p2oKAd72O?usp=sharing)
For my final project as an undergraduate student at Westminster College, I created a convolutional neural network (CNN) that used deep learning techniques and algorithms to detect photosensitive images apart from non-photosensitive ones. As a photosensitive person myself, I saw the need for a solution to the extreme lack, if not, abscense of algorithms that could be used to implement inclusive and accomodative settings for photosensitive online users on the rainbow of popular social media applications in current existence. So I implemented a simple algorithm for this project that could potentially be developed into a setting for protecting photosensitive people from being unnecessarily triggered and harmed by photosensitive content online. 

There are no publicly available datasets currently in existence that contains photosensitive and non-photosensitive images for training machine learning or deep learning models, so I had to work collaboratively with the Neuroscience department at Westminster College to create a dataset from scratch that contained effective images to properly train my model. Once the dataset was gathered and loaded into Google Drive, I used a multi-label classifier to learn from this small image dataset containing a variety of both photosensitive and non-photosensitive images (approx. 1900 images) to train this CNN. I used Python and the deep learning framework such PyTorch to code this model. The best overall results for my model was 83% accuracy for training and 85% for testing. 

This opportunity helped me significantly develop my independent coding abilities of designing, developing, and implementing a good performing CNN. Though I believe that more layers could be added to my current model to make it deeper and improve performance, this project is important in that it contributes meaningful research that has a social impact.
